Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Use of appropriate data structure enables a computer system to perform its task more
efficiently, by influencing the ability of computer to store and retrieve data from
any location in its memory.
A.
2.What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Traversing: Traversing a Data Structure means to visit the element stored in it. This
can be done with any type of DS.
Searching: Searching means to find a particular element in the given data-structure.
It is considered as successful when the required element is found. Searching is the
operation which we can performed on data-structures like array, linked-list, tree,
graph, etc.
Insertion: It is the operation which we apply on all the data-structures. Insertion
means to add an element in the given data structure. The operation of insertion is
successful when the required element is added to the required data-structure.
Deletion: It is the operation which we apply on all the data-structures. Deletion
means to delete an element in the given data structure. The operation of deletion
is successful when the required element is deleted from the data structure.

3.List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Compiler Design,
Operating System,
Database Management System,
Statistical analysis package,
Numerical Analysis,
Graphics,
Artificial Intelligence,
and Simulation.
4.what is an Array?
An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.
The length of an array is established when the array is created. After creation, its
length is fixed. You have seen an example of arrays already, in the main method of
the "Hello World!" application.

5.what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
An array is basic functionality provided by Java. ArrayList is part of collection
framework in Java. Therefore array members are accessed using [], while ArrayList
has a set of methods to access elements and modify them. Array is a fixed size data
structure while ArrayList is not.
6.what is LinkedList?
Linked List is a part of the Collection framework present in java. util package. This
class is an implementation of the LinkedList data structure which is a linear data
structure where the elements are not stored in contiguous locations and every element
is a separate object with a data part and address part.
7.How is an Array different from Linked List?
An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. Linked List is an ordered
collection of elements of the same type in which each element is connected to the next
using pointers. Array elements can be accessed randomly using the array index. Random
accessing is not possible in linked lists.
8.what is queue?
A Queue is a linear structure which follows a particular order in which the operations
are performed. The order is First In First Out (FIFO).
9.what is stack?
Stack is a linear data structure which follows a particular order in which the
operations are performed. The order may be LIFO(Last In First Out) or FILO(First In
Last Out).
10.what is FIFO and LIFO?
A good example of a queue is any queue of consumers for a resource where the consumer
that came first is served first.
There are many real-life examples of a stack. Consider an example of plates stacked
over one another in the canteen. The plate which is at the top is the first one to be
removed, i.e. the plate which has been placed at the bottommost position remains in
the stack for the longest period of time. So, it can be simply seen to follow LIFO(
Last In First Out)/FILO(First In Last Out) order.
11.what is the order of complexity?
Complexity can be constant, logarithmic, linear, n*log(n), quadratic, cubic,
exponential, etc. This is respectively the order of constant, logarithmic,
linear and so on, number of steps, are executed to solve a given problem.
12.what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Sequential search is the best that we can do when trying to find a value in an
unsorted array. [1] But if the array is sorted in increasing order by value, then
we can do much better. We use a process called binary search.
13.what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Element can be at 1st position, the last position or somewhere in between. The worst
case arises when the element is at last position or not in the array, therefore we
have to traverse the whole array giving n no. of repetitions over loop. Therefore the
worst case time complexity is O(n).
14.what is tree in data structure?
A general tree is a tree where each node may have zero or more children (a binary tree
is a specialized case of a general tree). General trees are used to model applications
such as file systems.


15.what is graph in data structure?
A Graph is a non-linear data structure consisting of nodes and edges.
A Graph consists of a finite set of vertices(or nodes) and set of Edges which connect
a pair of nodes.
16.what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Hashtable is synchronized, whereas HashMap is not. This makes HashMap better for
non-threaded applications, as unsynchronized Objects typically perform better than
synchronized ones. Hashtable does not allow null keys or values. HashMap allows one
null key and any number of null values.
17.What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
RDBMS = Array (i.e. Array of structures)
Network data model = Graph
Hierarchical data model = Trees

18.How HashMap works in java?
HashMap in Java works on hashing principles. It is a data structure which allows us to
store object and retrieve it in constant time O(1) provided we know the key.

Objects are stored by callingput(key, value) method of HashMap and retrieved by
calling get(key) method.
HashMap internally stores mapping in the form of Map.Entry object which contains both
key and value object.


19.What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is thrown to indicate that we are trying to access
array element with an illegal index. This exception is thrown when the index is either
negative or greater than or equal to the size of the array.

20.What is difference between an array and a linked list?
There are multiple ways to copy elements from one array in Java like you can manually
copy elements by using a loop, create a clone of the array, use Arrays. copyOf()
method or System. arrayCopy() to start copying elements from one array to another in
Java
22.What is DFS and BFS?
Two of the most popular tree traversal algorithms are breadth-first search (BFS) and
depth-first​ search (DFS). Both methods visit all vertices and edges of a graph;
however, they are different in the way in which they perform the traversal.


23.What is Recursion?
Recursion is the technique of making a function call itself. This technique provides
a way to break complicated problems down into simple problems which are easier to
solve.
24.What are linear and non linear data Structures?
In a linear data structure, data elements are arranged in a linear order where each
and every elements are attached to its previous and next adjacent. In a non-linear
data structure, data elements are attached in hierarchically manner. ... In linear
data structure, data elements can be traversed in a single run only.
25.What is Big-(O)-notation?
Big O notation is a mathematical notation that describes the limiting behavior of a
function when the argument tends towards a particular value or infinity. ... In
computer science, big O notation is used to classify algorithms according to how
their run time or space requirements grow as the input size grows.

26.Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Selection Sort
Bubble Sort
Insertion Sort
Heap Sort
Quick Sort
Merge Sort
Bucket Sort
Radix Sort
27.Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.




